ay? You take delight in vexing me. You have no compassion for my poor nerves." 
"You mistake me, my dear. I have a high respect for your nerves. They are my old friends. I have heard you mention them with consideration these last twenty years at least." 
Mr. Bennet was so odd a mixture of quick parts, sarcastic humour, reserve, and caprice, that the experience of three-and-twenty years had been insufficient to make his wife understand his character. HER mind was less difficult to develop. She was a woman of mean understanding, little information, and uncertain temper. When she was discontented, she fancied herself nervous. The business of her life was to get her daughters married; its solace was visiting and news. 
Chapter 2
Mr. Bennet was among the earliest of those who waited on Mr. Bingley. He had always intended to visit him, though to the last always assuring his wife that he should not go; and till the evening after the visit was paid she had no knowledge of it. It was then disclosed in the following manner. Observing his second daughter employed in trimming a hat, he suddenly addressed her with: 
"I hope Mr. Bingley will like it, Lizzy." 
"We are not in a way to know WHAT Mr. Bingley likes," said her mother resentfully, "since we are not to visit." 
"But you forget, mamma," said Elizabeth, "that we shall meet him at the assemblies, and that Mrs. Long promised to introduce him." 
"I do not believe Mrs. Long will do any such thing. She has two nieces of her own. She is a selfish, hypocritical woman, and I have no opinion of her." 
"No more have I," said Mr. Bennet; "and I am glad to find that you do not depend on her serving you." 
Mrs. Bennet deigned not to make any reply, but, unable to contain herself, began scolding one of her daughters. 
"Don't keep coughing so, Kitty, for Heaven's sake! Have a little compassion on my nerves. You tear them to pieces." 
"Kitty has no discretion in her coughs," said her father; "she times them ill." 
"I do not cough for my own amusement," replied Kitty fretfully. "When is your next ball to be, Lizzy?" 
"To-morrow fortnight." 
"Aye, so it is," cried her mother, "and Mrs. Long does not come back till the day before; so it will be impossible for her to introduce him, for she will not know him herself." 
"Then, my dear, you may have the advantage of your friend, and introduce Mr. Bingley to HER." 
"Impossible, Mr. Bennet, impossible, when I am not acquainted with him myself; how can you be so teasing?"

